Check Weather
=============

**Enroute Flight Navigation** can show METAR reports and TAF forecasts from
nearby airfields along your route.  The data is updated frequently, provided
that an internet connection is available.  To check weather, open the main menu
and choose the item "Weather".  The weather information comes from the "Aviation
Weather Center", a website of the US government.  When you open the page for the
first time, **Enroute Flight Navigation** asks for your permission to access
that site. 

.. warning::

   The weather information shown by **Enroute Flight Navigation** might be
   outdated or otherwise wrong.  Assessment of meteorological flight conditions
   has to be done via an officially approved source of flight weather.  

As soon as weather information has been downloaded, the page will look like
this.

.. _weather:
.. figure:: ./autogenerated/02-03-01-Weather.png
   :scale: 30 %
   :align: center
   :alt: Weather at Airfields Close to Freiburg

   Weather Information


The page body displays a list of stations that are within 85Â nm around your
current position or your intended flight route.  As you can see in the picture,
the following information is shown.

- ICAO identifier for Station and Airport name

- Distance, QUJ and required gliding ratio for direct flight to the station. See
  the section :ref:`directionItem` for more detail.

- METAR summary

The entries are classified and colored according to the "aviation flight
categories" typically used in the United States; see the section
:ref:`metarDialog` for precise definitions.

- Red: IFR and low IFR conditions

- Yellow: Marginal VFR conditions

- Green: VFR conditions

- White: No data

Touch any item in the list to open dialog window with more details. The dialog
window will look like this.

.. _weatherDialog:
.. figure:: ./autogenerated/02-03-02-WeatherDialog.png
   :scale: 30 %
   :align: center
   :alt: Detailed Weather Dialog

   Detailed Weather Dialog

Depending on screen size, you might have to scroll down in order to read the
full weather forecast.  The section :ref:`metarDialog` describes the dialog in
full detail.


Page Footer 
-----------

The footer of the page shows the following data.

* QNH of the closest airfield, as well as location and time of the report
* Time of next sunset or sunrise at current location 
* Remaining time until sunset


Refresh Button
--------------

The refresh button in the title bar at the top right of the page allows checking
for updates of METAR and TAF data.  **Enroute Flight Navigation** checks for
updates at regular intervals, so that there is no need to trigger an update
manually.  The refresh button might however be useful to force an update in
setting where the device had no internet connection for a while.
