.. _metarDialog:

METAR and TAF Dialog
====================

**Enroute Flight Navigation** shows METAR reports and TAF forecasts using the
following dialog.

.. _metar_taf_dialog:
.. figure:: ../02-tutorialBasic/autogenerated/02-03-02-WeatherDialog.png
   :scale: 30 %
   :align: center
   :alt: Detailed Weather Dialog

   METAR and TAF Dialog

This section describes the dialog window in detail.

.. warning::

  The weather information shown by **Enroute Flight Navigation** might be
  outdated or otherwise wrong.  Always use officially approved sources of flight
  weather information to assess of meteorological flight conditions.  


Title and Subtitle
------------------

The title bar shows the name and ICAO identifier of the station whose METAR and
TAF are shown. Identifiers are shown only if the window is wide enough.

If current positioning data is available, the window shows a subtitle line with
directions for flight to the weather station. The section :ref:`directionItem`
explains the direction line in more detail.


METAR Section
-------------

The METAR section starts with a headline that prominently displays the age of
the METAR.  The following data is shown further down.


Raw METAR Text
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The raw METAR text is displayed in a box that is colored according to the
"aviation flight categories" typically used in the United States. The coding
scheme is explained in the table below. Note that this color coding might be
different from the scheme typically used in your country. Green color does
certainly **not** imply that it is advisable (or legal) to fly.

+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+
| Category     | Color  | Ceiling                 |     | Visibility            |
+==============+========+=========================+=====+=======================+
| low IFR      | Red    | <500 feet AGL           | or  | <1 statute mile       |
+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+
| IFR          | Red    | 500 -- 1,000 feet AGL   | or  | 1 -- 3 statute miles  |
+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+
| marginal VFR | Yellow | 1,000 -- 3,000 feet AGL | or  |  3 -- 5 statute miles |
+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+
| VFR          | Green  | >3,000 feet AGL         | and | > 5 statute miles     |
+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+
| no data      | White  | --                      | --  | --                    |
+--------------+--------+-------------------------+-----+-----------------------+


Decoded METAR Text
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Enroute Flight Navigation** is able to decode METAR texts. The decoded
information is shown in the form of an itemized list.

We found that many METAR reports deviate from the standard format, often
following national or local traditions to include additional data.  While
**Enroute Flight Navigation** includes a sophisticated decoding algorithm, it
might fail to interpret every METAR report correctly.


Derived Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^

For convenience, **Enroute Flight Navigation** shows a number of data items that
are not directly contained in the METAR, but can be inferred from METAR data. If
enough information is available, then the following data is presented under the
headline "Derived Data".

Density Altitude

  The density altitude is computed using a rather sophisticated algorithm that
  takes QNH, airfield elevation, temperature and humidity into account. The
  value presented might therefore differ from rule-of-thumb estimates taught in
  flight schools. For details concerning our algorithm, check the source code of
  **Enroute Flight Navigation**, which is freely available on GitHub. 

Relative Humidity

  Relative humidity is computed using a standard formula from temperature and
  dew point information contained in METAR data.

Warnings Concerning Aircraft Performance

  Warnings are shown if rule-of-thumb estimates suggest that density altitude
  degrades performance of typical SEP aircraft to a point where takeoff-distance
  increases by more than 25% or climb rates decreases by more than 25%, when
  compared to standard conditions at sea level.

Explanatory Text

  Whenever warnings are shown, **Enroute Flight Navigation** also displays a
  brief explanatory text.  The text contains hyperlinks that can be used to hide
  the explanatory text, or hide all performance warnings altogether. Use the
  :ref:`SettingsPage` page to re-enable warnings after they have been switched
  off. 

**Enroute Flight Navigation** uses the standard rule-of-thumb estimate that the
takeoff-distance increases by 15% and the climb rate decreases by 7.5% for every
1,000 ft of density altitude. While this might be a reasonable estimate for
typical SEP aircraft, it might be conservative for aircraft with a turbocharged
engine.

.. warning::

  Do not rely on **Enroute Flight Navigation** to assess aircraft performance.
  We do not guarantee that density altitude is computed correctly. The
  rule-of-thumb estimate for aircraft performance might not apply to your
  specific aircraft.

  Density altitude and aircraft performance are safety-critical. While the
  number presented in **Enroute Flight Navigation** can give you a first
  impression, always use approved methods to compute density altitude for your
  locality. Always refer to the officially approved flight manual to assess
  aircraft performance.



TAF Section
-----------

The raw TAF text is displayed in a white box, followed by the decoded TAF text.
As with METAR text, we cannot guarantee that **Enroute Flight Navigation** is
able to decode every TAF correctly.

