---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

title: ""
layout: splash

#excerpt: "Navigation for VFR pilots"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/teaser.jpg
  overlay_filter: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5)
  caption: "Photo by Shaun Darwood on Unsplash"
  actions:
    - label: "Get it on Google Play"
      url: "https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.akaflieg_freiburg.enroute"
    - label: "Download on the App Store"
      url: "https://apps.apple.com/de/app/enroute-flight-navigation/id6448892176"
feature_row:
  - image_path: /assets/images/maps.jpg
    alt: "Free maps"
    title: "Maps Included"
    excerpt: "Our free maps receive daily updates and cover large parts of the world. [More …](https://akaflieg-freiburg.github.io/enrouteManual/08-appendix/01-dataSources.html#map-data)"
  - image_path: /assets/images/simple.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "Simple by Design"
    excerpt: "**Enroute Flight Navigation**  is meant to be simple, functional, reliable and easy to learn."
  - image_path: /assets/images/free.jpg
    title: "100% Free"
    excerpt: "**Enroute Flight Navigation** is 100% open source, and fully non-commercial. [We do not collect your data.](/enroute/privacy)"
---

**Enroute Flight Navigation** is an award-winning flight navigation app for
Android and other devices. Designed to be simple, functional and elegant, it
takes the stress out of your next flight. The program is free.  It has been
written by flight enthusiasts, as a project of [Akaflieg
Freiburg](https://akaflieg-freiburg.de), a flight club based in Freiburg,
Germany.

{% include feature_row %}

# Main Features

<figure style="width: 250px" class="align-right">
  <img src="{{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/images/map.png" alt="">
  <figcaption>Moving Map Display.</figcaption>
</figure>

**Enroute Flight Navigation** features a moving map, similar in style to the
official ICAO maps.  Your current position and your flight path for the next
five minutes are marked, and so is your intended flight route. A double tap on
the display gives you all the information about airspaces, airfields and navaids
-- complete with frequencies, codes, elevations and runway information.

Our free aeronautical maps can be downloaded for offline use.  In addition to
airspaces, airfields and navaids, selected maps also show traffic circuits as
well as flight procedures for control zones.  [The maps receive daily updates
and cover large parts of the
world.](https://akaflieg-freiburg.github.io/enrouteManual/08-appendix/01-dataSources.html#map-data)

While **Enroute Flight Navigation** is no substitute for full-featured flight
planning software, it allows you to quickly and easily compute distances,
courses and headings, and gives you an estimate for flight time and fuel
consumption. If the weather turns bad, the app will show you the closest
airfields for landing, complete with distances, directions, runway information
and frequencies.


# Not Commercial. Privacy Taken Seriously.

This app was written by flight enthusiasts without financial interest. We do not
surprise you with mid-flight advertising or in-app purchases and there is no
commercial "pro"-version of the app. The app is published under the [GNU General
Public License](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_General_Public_License), a
widely-used free software license that guarantees end users the freedom to run,
study, share, and modify the software.

[We do not collect your
data.](https://akaflieg-freiburg.github.io/enrouteText/manual/04-appendix/privacy.html)
We do not use the "Facebook API", "Crashlytics" or similar software that spies
on you. You do not need to register for "membership". And we do not hassle you
with e-mails. We do not even have or want your address!


# … and what's with the name?

Every pilot in the world knows the name "Enroute" as the title of the second
chapter of the [Aeronautical Information
Publication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aeronautical_Information_Publication),
or AIP.  The AIP is a manual published by every state that contains thorough
details of regulations, procedures and other information pertinent to flying
aircraft in the particular country.


# Disclaimer

This free app is published in the hope that it might be useful as an aid to
prudent navigation. It comes with no guarantees. It may not work as expected.
The data does not come from official sources and might be incomplete, outdated
or otherwise incorrect.  **This app is no substitute for proper flight
preparation or good pilotage. Relying on it as a primary means of navigation is
most likely illegal, most certainly stupid and potentially suicidal.**
